docs: github information (#1059)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/contribute/general/github/_index.md

---
title: Working with github
description: Information relevant to github
weight: 100
---

To start your contribution with [Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit) follow this github instructions:

> ### Fork and clone the repository

Reviewer: Please be consistent with heading levels.

The title in the frontmatter works as the heading of the first level or markdown `# heading 1` - but there is no heading of the second level, just the third level. Please adapt to have a consistent heading-level hierarchy. Thank you

Author: @aepfli sorry for the late response you can review now. :)

---
title: Working with github
description: Information relevant to github
weight: 100
---

To start your contribution with
[Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit)

> follow this github instructions:

Reviewer 2: Might want to say that all Keptn software and documentation is stored in github repositories and all changes are made using standard Git practices.  Most of the material in this section is just something to help people who are not Git experts but this is not an exhaustive list of what you can do with Git and, if you are an experienced Git user and have other practices that you prefer, you can use them.  My wording is pretty rough -- I'm sure you'll do better.

## Fork and clone the repository

Perform the following steps to create a copy of this repository on your local machine:

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we explicitly tell them to not just clone main locally?

1. Fork the Keptn repository:

     * Log into GitHub (or create a GitHub account and then log into it).
     * Go to the [Keptn lifecycle-toolkit repository](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit).
     * Click the **Fork** button at the top of the screen.
     * Choose the user for the fork from the options you are given,
       usually your GitHub ID.

   A copy of this repository is now available in your GitHub account.

2. Get the string to use when cloning your fork:

     * Click the green "Code" button on the UI page.
     * Select the protocol to use for this clone (either HTTPS or SSH).
     * A box is displayed that gives the URL for the selected protocol.
       Click the icon at the right end of that box to copy that URL.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do you think an annotated screen shot would be useful here?  I go back and forth on it -- it didn't seem appropriate in the CONTRIBUTING.md file but could work now that this is an actual document.  But is it worth the maintenance hassle?  See what you think.

> 3. Run the **git clone** command from the shell of a local directory

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that they might want to create a sub-directory called "Clone" or "Github" or "Keptn" or whatever they want but to keep all their clones together in one place?  It's not a rule but it is something that can make life easier and novices may not intuit this.

    ```

    or

    ```console
    git clone git@github.com:<UserName>/lifecycle-toolkit.git
    ```

    Where <*UserName*> is your GitHub username.
    The lifecycle-toolkit directory is now available in the local directory.

4. Associate your clone with `upstream`.
   To do this, use the same string you used to clone your fork.

   * Be sure that you are in the root folder of the project
     and run *git status* to confirm that you are on the `main` branch.
   * Type the following to associate `upstream` with your clone,
     pasting in the string for the main repo that you copied above.:

     ```console
     git remote add upstream https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit.git 
     ```

### Create a new branch and make your changes

Now you have your upstream setup in your local machine.
You need to create a local branch where you will make your changes.
Be sure that your branch is based on and sync'ed with `main`,
unless you intend to create a derivative PR:

The following sequence of commands does that:

```console
git checkout main
git pull upstream main
git push origin main
git checkout -b <my-new-branch>
```

> Now you can make your changes, build them locally to check formatting,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can make your changes and check them locally.
For software changes, this means building and testing the software;
for documentation changes,
this means build them locally and check formatting,
```

> then create a PR to add these changes to the documentation set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you are satisfied that your changes are good,
create a PR to add these changes to the documentation set.
```

### Submitting new content through a pull request

If you have forked and cloned the repository,
you can modify the documentation or add new material
by editing the markdown file(s) in the local clone of your fork

> and then submitting a *pull request (PR)*.

Reviewer 2: Is this necessary?  It just reiterates what went right before.

Note that you can also modify the source using the GitHub editor.
This is very useful when you want to fix a typo or make a small editorial change
but, if you are doing significant writing,

> it is generally better to work on files in your local clone.

Reviewer 2: It seems like this should be outside the "Create a PR" section, doesn't it?  Not exactly sure whether it should go before or after.

1. Execute the following and check the output to ensure that your branch is set up correctly:

   ```console
   git status
   ```

> 1. Do the writing you want to do in your local branch, checking the formatted version at `localhost:1314`.

Reviewer 2: This is only relevant to the docs, not software, and it kind of duplicates what is above only with more detail.  I'm thinking that the section about documentation will describe how to run a local build to test the docs -- maybe better to just reference that in the previous section when we talk about testing your changes before creating the PR.  And not really relevant to this section.

1. When you have completed the writing you want to do, close all files in your branch and run `git status` to confirm

>    that it correctly reflects the files you have modified, added, and deleted.

Reviewer 2: Should this be the end of the previous section?  After they do this, they are ready to create the PR

1. Add and commit your changes.  Here, we commit all modified files but you can specify individual files to the
   `git add` command.
The `git commit -s` command commits the files and signs that you are contributing this intellectual property to the
Keptn project.

   ```console
   git add .
   git commit -s

>    ```

Reviewer 2: The flow seems awkward here, doesn't it?  And if I'm brand new to all of this, does it make sense?

>    Use vi commands to add a description of the PR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Use `vi` commands to add a description of the PR
```

>    (should be 80 characters or less) to the commit.
>    The title text should be prefixed with `docs:`
>    to conform to our semantic commit scheme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To conform to our semantic commit scheme,
the title text should be prefixed with `docs:`
 followed by a descriptive title (80 characters or less)
 that begins with a lowercase letter.
 The CI tests run on your PR enforce this scheme.
```

   This title is displayed as the title of the PR in listings.
   You can add multiple lines explaining the PR here but, in general,
   it is better to only supply the PR title here;
   you can add more information and edit the PR title
   when you create the PR on the GitHub UI page.

1. Push your branch to github:
   * If you cloned your fork to use SSH, the command is:

      ```console
      git push --set-upstream origin <branch-name>
      ```

      > **Note**
      You can just issue the `git push` command.
      Git responds with an error message that gives you the full command line to use; you can copy this command and
      paste it into your shell to push the content.

   * If you cloned your fork to use HTTP, the command is:

      ```console

>       git push <need options/arguments>

Reviewer 2: Whoops!  This needs to be filled in and I'm not sure what it is off the top of my head.  But you may be able to find that info in the git docs -- holler if you need help.

      ```

1. Create the PR by going to the [lifecycle-toolkit](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit) GitHub repository.
   * You should see a yellow shaded area that says something like:

     ```console
     <GitID>:<branch> had recent pushes less than a minute ago
     ```

   * Click on the button in that shaded area marked:

     ```console
     Compare & pull request
     ```

   * Check that the title of the PR is correct; click the "Edit" button to modify it.

> Add "WIP" (Work in Progress) or "Draft" to the title if the PR is not yet ready for general review.

Reviewer 2: They can also mark the PR as a draft after they create the PR.  We should tell them that and how to do it.  Now that we have that capability, is it superfluous to recommend using "WIP" or "DRAFT" in the description?  Maybe just remove that and, after they create the PR, tell them how to make it a draft.
